


                                 SPLITTER.COM

        A friend and I have attempted to exchange programs for some time, 
        with  an occasional problem.  He has a Xerox and I have a Kaypro. 
        With the Kaypro having MFDISK,  we could swap disks and move  the 
        software  fairly easily.  The problem came when a very large file 
        was to be moved.  MFDISK would only do a single side  disk,  even 
        though  the Xerox uses double sided disks.  This limited the size 
        of  the  file we could move (or resulted in some  rather  painful 
        efforts to spilt the file into parts.) The result was the need to 
        create a program to easily split the files apart.  Thus was  born 
        SPLITTER.

        SPLITTER  will allow you to split a file at any desired point  in 
        the file.  The program will display some instructions at start up 
        and ask for the file to be split. Any bad entries here will abort 
        the  program  with  an error message.  Given a  good  file  name, 
        SPLITTER will find the file and display the size in 128 byte disk 
        records. You will then be asked for the split point. The point is 
        after one of these 128 byte records. Any value from 1 to the file 
        size may be entered. An invalid number will abort the program. If 
        the  number  is  valid,  SPLITTER will copy  records  up  to  and 
        including  the record number entered to a new file.  The filename 
        will be filename.ext where ext is a numeric designation beginning 
        with 001.  

        Once  these  records  have been copied,  you will  be  asked  for 
        another  split point.  All numbers now have meaning.  If a number 
        greater  than the previous and less than the file size is  given, 
        another  file is created with the next segment  of  records.  The 
        file extent is increased to 002, 003, etc. This process continues 
        until a number is entered that is not within this range.  If such 
        a  number is entered,  the remainder of the source file is copied 
        to another file with a sequentially increased file  extent.  Note 
        that this last entry may be a simple RETURN.

        To put the file back together, just use PIP:

             >PIP newfile.dat=file.001,file.002,...

        This  will  concatenate all the pieces back into a  single  large 
        file.

        I  have  found that SPLITTER is also useful for backing up  large 
        files from a hard disk to floppies.  The file is split where  you 
        want it and can easily be put back together.



                                           Mike Nault
                                           August 1984.
